# Core excerpts
Al-Attas was driven by the belief that Islam would flourish as a civilisation through the ordering of meaning through language, both in its material aspects and otherwise. After all, [by one measure](https://kasurian.com/p/islamic-secular), **the scale of a civilisation is measured in the size and complexity of its knowledge-processing functions and institutions.** The [relative dearth](https://kasurian.com/p/closing-of-the-muslim-mind) of indigenous knowledge production in the Muslim world today demands both an explanation for how this state of affairs came to be and a response in the form of new tools, techniques, and forms of organisation that allow for the building of new knowledge-producing systems.

**Al-Attas came closest to providing a systematic response to this quandary.**

---
[lengthy section on al-Attas life]
 In a fledgling, rapidly industrialising nation with a thin Muslim majority and delicate racial (im)balance, **Al-Attas’ discourse on Islam, offering a civilisationally rich and intellectually rigorous alternative to both rigid traditionalism and modernist reform,** attracted a significant following among university students already agitated by the global tides of Islamic revivalism.

Al-Attas offered a different route: neither a rupture with tradition nor an uncritical embrace of modernist reform, but rather a rediscovery of Islam’s civilisational depth. For some students, Al-Attas’ discourse represented a dynamic continuity of centuries-old intellectual tradition in a brave new world. Unlike the reformist-modernists of that period, **Al-Attas’ creative deployment of the Islamic tradition did not constitute a rupture.** He did not call for a return to the Early Generations (salaf) in a way that bypassed the millennium of accumulated, codified and institutionalised knowledge that had followed those generations. And although his high metaphysics remained accessible only to a small group of close students, sociologically, his discourse fostered a self-identity that unapologetically viewed the world through the lens of Islam, one that is thoroughly rooted in Malay culture but confidently outward-looking.

**Underlying Al-Attas’ orientation was a deeper source**: The view that any civilisational renewal begins with language and the conceptual architecture it sustains.

---
This stability of meaning means that Quranic Arabic, unlike all other languages, allows objective truth to be conveyed across time and space, regardless of period, geography or circumstances.
Arabic, Al-Attas argues, was chosen to be the language of the Quran because of its inherent clarity. In contrast to the Graeco-Roman or Irano-Persian languages that dominated the region at the time of revelation, Arabic was not burdened with the baggage of mythological vocabularies. Instead, **Arabic was a pristine language that could express ideas with precision. This linguistic economy enabled Islam to spread rapidly in the coming centuries, expressing an all-encompassing worldview that attracted adherents not only among Arabs and other Semites but also among Persians, Egyptians, Berbers, Europeans, Africans, Indians, Chinese, Turks, and Malays.**

---
In English, the word “religion” originates from the Latin word “religio,” meaning the bond between man and the gods. The English ‘religion’ reveals little about what this bond is and how it should be acted upon. Left ambiguous, it opened the door to shifting, subjective interpretations. This ambiguity has shaped the turbulent path of Western religious history. By contrast, the Qur’anic din – the usual translation for religion – is rooted in the trilateral D-Y-N. It is directly linked to dayn, or debt. Like all debts, including the greatest debt of all — the debt of life and existence bestowed on man by God — is best discharged within an organised society equipped with law and ordinances governing debts, their disposition and the related networks of commercial life.
In other words, debts are best discharged in towns and cities. The social order is expressed in the madinah, derived from the verb maddana, from which another term of significance is also derived, tamaddun, or civilisation.

For over a millennium, Muslims did not need to theorise or elucidate the connection between din, madinah, and tamaddun because they lived it. The man of din was a man of civilisation, and this relationship was not mere speculative philosophy. Even at the peak of spiritual experience, during the Mi’raj and his direct audience with God, the Prophet ﷺ returned to his city to continue the civilisational work of Islam. It is the Believer’s obligation, by virtue of his belief, to self-identify, think, act, and aspire at the scale of civilisation.

[more history]

---
**Moral and material issues facing humanity** – such as ecological rupture, demographic shifts, the mental health epidemic, and gaping inequality in the face of unprecedented abundance – **ought to be at the front and centre of Muslims’ discourse.**
To achieve this, **Muslims must understand** not just the intellectual genesis and cultural values underpinning this milieu (which Al-Attas had elucidated in his Islam and Secularism), but also the **material realities that have dislodged and radically altered the world in the past three centuries.** In a world that has never been more interconnected, Muslim thinkers and institutions at the forefront of knowledge production ought to have a profound understanding of the base layer shaping the world – for example, the infrastructure of the world’s energy and financial systems, industrial production, trade, geopolitics, demographic shifts, and ecological limits.
Frontier thinkers cannot afford to be confined within the silo of Islamic Studies. Al-Attas’ ‘Islamisation of knowledge’ project was not meant to make Muslims tribal and provincial. To reduce Al-Attas’ ideas into pointers for the finer details of theological disputes or political quibbles, by paraphrasing Al-Attas without substantive contextualisation of his ideas, is to render great injustice to his legacy.
**To propel Muslims who are still “floundering in a sea of bewilderment and self-doubt”, Al-Attas equipped us with the confidence in our vocabularies**, reinterpreted in light of our present circumstances, yet firmly rooted in Revelation, for us to be able to look outside and sieve, re-sieve, and thus receive the best from what others have to offer – to venture with curiosity and conviction.
Beyond his corpus, at an institutional level, Al-Attas’ strategy also offers lessons for any 21st-century attempt at civilisational revival. Ahead of his time, **he identified the frontier of knowledge-producing institutions as a key priority for civilisational revival.** Yet, Al-Attas also conceded that the operationalisation of the Islamic university that he conceptualised would inevitably be experimental, requiring rigorous trials and correction of errors. One must adopt a longue durée view of civilisational change in solving a problem of this magnitude.
Al-Attas’ conceptualisation of an Islamic university seeks to restore the university’s abiding centre as reflected by the individual self, which would hold together the unity of knowledge and make clear the final aim of its pursuits. Specialisations that occur in this setting will reflect these values. That said, it is now starkly clear that what differentiates the past three centuries was not just niche innovations at the frontier of knowledge. The systematic application of these innovations in the manipulation of nature and society at an industrial scale has increasingly entrenched us in what Marshall Hodgson calls a ‘technicalistic’ society.
Even in the optimistic event that an Islamic university, **in the sense Al-Attas envisioned, is established to reinstate the proper hierarchy of knowledge, Muslims can only pragmatically affect change at the level of humanity if this worldview is actualised at the material level on a greater scale.**
*What forms of institutional arrangements must Muslims imagine to achieve this? How do we fund, sustain, and scale these institutions? Should we still rely on the apparatus of the nation-state in the way that ISTAC did? Should visionaries such as Al-Attas be given a position in the government, similar to Wang Huning in the Chinese government, to ensure vision endurance? Should we instead reinvigorate that lost transnational network of elite Muslims? If so, what institutions are needed to recreate a respectable high culture such that Muslim elites are willing to band together? These are tough questions with no easy answers, but they are certainly crucial for any serious 21st-century attempt at civilisational revival.*
# My thoughts 

I thought the article was a little difficult to read due to the way it was written—finding it haphazard and requiring careful extraction to understand Attas’ propositions.

The title and subtitle indicate towards the professors work and ideas regarding linguistics and how the Arabic language enabled Islam to spread due to its precision and stability, lending itself to better represent Islam and the din’s holistic nature. The author represents examples via Arabic/English words for din and debt, or civilisation and Madinah. 

However I found the author to be doing more of a meta-commentary rather than a commentary or exposition of Attas’ thoughts. He mentions how Attas ‘*came closest to providing a systematic response to this quandar*y’, or how he ‘*offers a civilisationally rich and intellectually rigorous alternative to both rigid traditionalism and modernist reform*, or ‘*creative deployment of the Islamic tradition that did not constitute a rupture.*

I don’t think these claims were really substantiated in the article although it seems like they were being primed to be. I do like the idea of reclaiming language which is part of a bigger problem within our society, and how subtle things reframe our entire conceptions from antithetical worldviews. I know Attas’ ideas are much more rich than this but it would have been good if the article explained *how* specifically reclaiming language can contribute to revival.

The sections of the article discussing his life and challenges were interesting, but I found the article perhaps should have either stuck to his ideas or his life, or at least gone into depth into one of the two more. As it is I found it a little lacklustre. 

I liked the questions he posed at the end for Muslims to grapple with and understand the difficult line that needs to be towed but overall I found the article falling short of explaining _how_ Attas’ ideas can be effective, rather than just that they can be.