# Section One
## The First Fortress

(1) 
**Translation:**
In the name of God (Allah), The Compassionate (Al-Rahman), The Merciful (Al-Rahim), and there is no power nor strength except by God (Allah), The Most High (Al-Ali), The Great (Al-Azim).

**Benefits:**
From Ali, may God (Allah) be pleased with him, he said: The Messenger of God (Allah), peace and blessings of God (Allah) be upon him, said to me: "O Ali, shall I not teach you words that if you fall into a predicament you say them?" I said: "Yes, may God (Allah) make me your ransom." He said: "If you fall into a predicament, say: In the name of God (Allah), The Most Compassionate (ar-Rahman), The Most Merciful (ar-Rahim), and there is no power nor strength except by God (Allah), The Most High (al-Ali), The Supreme (al-Azim). For indeed, God (Allah), The Exalted (Ta'ala), turns away by them whatever He wills from the types of affliction."

(2) O God (Allah), I ask You by the fact that to You belongs all praise, there is no deity but You, the Originator (Badi') of the heavens and the earth, O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Dha Al-Jalal wa Al-Ikram), O Living (Hayy), O Sustainer (Qayyum).

(3) O God (Allah), I ask You by the fact that to You belongs all praise, there is no deity but You, The Most Compassionate (Al-Hannan), The Bestower (Al-Mannan), the Originator (Badi') of the heavens and the earth, O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Dha Al-Jalal wa Al-Ikram), I ask You for Paradise and I seek refuge in You from the Fire.

(4) O God (Allah), I ask You by \[the truth that] there is no deity but You, the Lord (Rabb) of the seven heavens and the Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne, and I ask You by \[the truth that] there is no deity but You, the Lord (Rabb) of the seven heavens and the Lord (Rabb) of the Noble Throne, and I ask You by \[the truth that] there is no deity but You, the Lord (Rabb) of the seven heavens and the seven earths and whatever is in them, indeed You are Capable (Qadir) over all things. (Then one asks God for their need).

(5) O Lord (Ya Rabb), O Lord (Ya Rabb), O Lord (Ya Rabb), O Lord (Ya Rabb).

(6) O Originator (Ya Badi') of the heavens, O Living (Ya Hayy), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum).

(7) O God (Allah), I ask You from all goodness, what I know of it and what I do not know, and I ask You by Your Great Name by which if You are called upon, You answer, and if You are asked by it, You give.

(8) There is no deity but God (Allah), and God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar), there is no deity but God (Allah) alone, there is no deity but God (Allah) alone with no partner to Him, to Him belongs the dominion and to Him belongs all praise and He is Capable (Qadir) over all things, there is no deity but God (Allah) and there is no power nor strength except by God (Allah).

(9) O God (Allah), I am Your servant, the son of Your male servant, the son of Your female servant, my forelock is in Your hand, Your command over me is passing, Your decree over me is just. I ask You by every name that is Yours, by which You named Yourself, or revealed in Your book, or taught to anyone from Your creation, or kept exclusively in the knowledge of the unseen with You, that You make the Great Quran the spring of my heart, the light of my chest, the remover of my sadness, and the departure of my anxiety.

(10) Sufficient for me is the Lord (Al-Rabb) over the servants, sufficient for me is the Creator (Al-Khaliq) over the created beings, sufficient for me is the Provider (Al-Razzaq) over those who are provided for, sufficient for me is He who is my sufficiency, sufficient for me is God (Allah) and He is the excellent Disposer of affairs (Al-Wakil), sufficient for me is God (Allah), there is no deity but Him, upon Him I have relied, and He is the Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne.

(11) I have relied upon the Living (Al-Hayy) who does not die, and praise be to God (Allah) who has not taken a son, and has no partner in the dominion, and does not have a protecting friend (Wali) out of weakness, and magnify Him with all magnification.

(12) Sufficient for me is God (Allah) and the excellent Disposer of affairs (Al-Wakil).

(13) Sufficient for us is God (Allah) and the excellent Disposer of affairs (Al-Wakil).

(14) Sufficient for me is God (Allah) for such and such, sufficient for me is God (Allah) for what concerns me, sufficient for me is God (Allah) against whoever oppresses me, sufficient for me is God (Allah) against whoever plots evil against me.

(15) You were and You will be, and You are Living (Hayy) and do not die; eyes sleep and stars dim, while You are Living (Hayy), Sustaining (Qayyum), neither slumber nor sleep overtakes You, O Living (Ya Hayy), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum).

(16) There is no deity but God (Allah), The Great (Al-Azim), The Forbearing (Al-Halim), there is no deity but God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne, there is no deity but God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the heavens, Lord (Rabb) of the earth, Lord (Rabb) of the Noble Throne.

(17) There is no deity but God (Allah), The Forbearing (Al-Halim), The Generous (Al-Karim), Glory be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the seven heavens and Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne, there is no deity but You, mighty is Your protection, and glorious is Your praise, and there is no deity other than You.

(18) There is no deity but God (Allah), The Most High (Al-Ali), The Forbearing (Al-Halim), there is no deity but God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne, there is no deity but God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the seven heavens and Lord (Rabb) of the Noble Throne.

(19) O God (Allah), to You I complain of the weakness of my strength, the lack of my stratagem, and my insignificance before people. O Most Merciful of the merciful (Ya Arham Al-Rahimin), You are the Lord (Rabb) of the weak, and You are my Lord (Rabb), to whom do You leave me? To a distant person who receives me with hostility, or to an enemy to whom You have given control over my affair? If there is no anger from You upon me, then I do not care, except that Your granting of well-being is more expansive for me. I seek refuge in the light of Your Face by which darknesses are illuminated and upon which the affairs of this world and the Hereafter are set right, lest Your anger descends upon me or Your wrath settles upon me. To You is the right to reproach until You are pleased, and there is no power nor strength except by God (Allah).

(20) O Most Merciful of the merciful (Ya Arham Al-Rahimin) (Three times).

(21) O God (Allah), I ask You and I turn to You by Your Prophet Muhammad, peace and blessings of God be upon him, the Prophet of mercy. O our master, O Muhammad, I turn by you to my Lord (Rabb) concerning my need so that it may be fulfilled. O God (Allah), accept his intercession for me.

(22) O Light (Ya Nur) of the heavens and the earth, O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum) of the heavens and the earth, O Pillar (Ya Imad) of the heavens and the earth, O Adornment (Ya Zayn) of the heavens and the earth, O Beauty (Ya Jamal) of the heavens and the earth, O Originator (Ya Badi') of the heavens and the earth, O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Ya Dha Al-Jalal wa Al-Ikram), O Savior of those who seek salvation (Ya Ghawth Al-Mustaghithin), and the ultimate goal of the desirers, and the Reliever of the distressed, and the Gladdener of the grief-stricken, and the Answerer of the cries of those who cry out, and the Responder to the supplication of the desperate, and the Remover of great distress, O God (Ya Allah), O Compassionate (Ya Rahman), O Merciful (Ya Rahim), O Most Merciful of the merciful (Ya Arham Al-Rahimin), remove from me my grief, my anxiety, and my distress, and grant me my request.

*(And from what was reported from some of the Prophets, peace and blessings be upon them):*

(23) O Possessor of favor that never ceases and which no one else can enumerate.

(24) God (Allah) is my Lord (Rabb) and I do not associate anything with Him.

(25) O He who no one knows how He is except Him, and O He whose power no one else can reach, relieve me.

(26) O God (Allah), I ask You by Your Name, The One (Al-Wahid), The Unique (Al-Ahad), and I supplicate to You by Your Name, The Absolute (Al-Samad), and I supplicate to You by Your Great (Al-Azim), Single (Al-Witr) Name which filled all the pillars, that You relieve me from what I have entered the evening in and what I have entered the morning in.

(27) O God (Allah), just as You were gentle in Your greatness beyond the gentle ones, and You were exalted in Your greatness over the great ones, and You knew what is beneath Your earth just as You know what is above Your Throne, and the whispers of the chests were like public declarations to You, and the public declaration of speech was like a secret in Your knowledge, and everything submitted to Your greatness, and every possessor of authority yielded to Your authority, and the affair of the world and the Hereafter all became in Your hand, make for me from every anxiety I entered the evening in a relief and a way out. O God (Allah), indeed Your pardon of my sins, Your overlooking of my mistakes, and Your concealing of my ugly deeds has made me hopeful to ask You for what I do not deserve from You regarding that in which I fell short. I supplicate to You feeling secure, and I ask You feeling intimate, and You are the Benefactor to me while I am the wrongdoer to myself in what is between me and You. You show love to me with blessings and I make myself hateful to You with sins, but trust in You has carried me to be bold toward You, so return with Your bounty and goodness upon me, indeed You are The Acceptor of Repentance (Al-Tawwab), The Merciful (Al-Rahim).

(28) Glory be to Him upon whom no one can encompass the praise, glory be to The Pre-Eternal (Al-Qadim) who has no end, glory be to The Everlasting (Al-Da'im) who has no exhaustion, glory be to Him who every day is in [a state of] action, glory be to Him who gives life and causes death, glory be to Him who sees what cannot be seen, glory be to Him who knew everything without being taught.

(29) Praise be to God (Allah) whose bounty alone is hoped for, praise be to God (Allah) who does not disappoint whoever calls upon Him, praise be to God (Allah) who does not leave whoever trusts in Him to anyone else, praise be to God (Allah) who is our trust when stratagems are cut off from us, praise be to God (Allah) who is our hope when our assumptions about our deeds turn bad, praise be to God (Allah) who removes our harm during our distress, praise be to God (Allah) who rewards goodness with goodness, praise be to God (Allah) who rewards patience with salvation.

*(And from what was reported from some of the righteous among the Companions and others):*

(30) O He who no one knows how He is except Him, and O He whose power no one knows except Him, relieve from me what I am in.

(31) O my Companion in every hardship, and O my Savior in every distress, send blessings upon Muhammad and upon the family of Muhammad, and make for me from my affair a relief and a way out.

(32) O Loving (Ya Wadud), O Loving (Ya Wadud), O Possessor of the Glorious Throne (Ya Dha Al-Arsh Al-Majid), O Doer of what He wills (Ya Fa'alun lima yurid), I ask You by Your might which cannot be aimed at, and by Your dominion which cannot be wronged, and by Your light which filled the pillars of Your Throne, that You send blessings upon Muhammad and suffice me the evil of such and such, O Helper/Savior (Ya Mughith), help me.

(33) O Wise (Ya Hakim), O Knowing (Ya Alim), O Most High (Ya Ali), O Great (Ya Azim).

(34) O Savior of those who seek salvation (Ya Ghiyath Al-Mustaghithin).

(35) O Causer of causes, and O Opener of doors, and O Hearer of voices, O Answerer of supplications, O Fulfiller of needs, fulfill my need by Your bounty O God (Ya Allah), O Living (Ya Hayy), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum), O Originator (Ya Badi') of the heavens and the earth, O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Ya Dha Al-Jalal wa Al-Ikram).

(36) O Gentle/Subtle (Ya Latif), O Gentle (Ya Latif), O Gentle (Ya Latif), be gentle with me with Your hidden gentleness. O Gentle (Ya Latif) by the power with which You established Yourself upon the Throne so that the Throne did not know where Your resting place on it is except what You taught. O Forbearing (Ya Halim), O Knowing (Ya Alim), O Most High (Ya Ali), O Great (Ya Azim), O Crusher [of tyrants] (Ya Hashim), O Finder (Ya Wajid), O Glorious (Ya Majid), O Absolute (Ya Samad).

(37) O God (Allah), O Sufficer of affliction, suffice me from the affliction before it descends from the sky (O God [Ya Allah] - seven times). O He whose seeker of refuge is not wronged, and O He whose ruled subject is not humiliated, and O He who answers whoever is oppressed, and O He who is Knowing (Alim) of everything, and O Remaining One (Baqin) after all annihilation, and O Mender without bone, and O He who has a name without falsehood, make for me from my affair a relief and a way out.

(38) O God (Allah), I ask You, O He whom eyes cannot see, whom assumptions cannot mix with, whom describers cannot describe, whom events and eras cannot change; You know the weights of mountains, the measures of oceans, the number of raindrops, the number of tree leaves, the number of what the night darkens upon and the day shines upon; no sky can hide a sky from Him, nor an earth an earth, nor a mountain except He knows what is in its ruggedness, nor a sea except He knows what is in its depths. O God (Allah), I ask You to make the best of my deeds the final ones, and the best of my days the day I meet You in it, indeed You are Capable (Qadir) over all things. O God (Allah), whoever shows enmity to me, show enmity to him, whoever plots against me, plot against him, whoever oppresses me with destruction, destroy him, whoever sets a trap for me, seize him, extinguish from me the fire of whoever ignites his fire for me, suffice me the anxiety of whoever introduces his anxiety to me, enter me into Your fortified armor, conceal me with Your protective veil. O He who sufficed me of everything, suffice me of what concerns me from the affairs of the world and the Hereafter, and verify my speech and actions with realization. O Compassionate (Ya Shafiq), O Gentle (Ya Rafiq), relieve from me every constriction, and do not burden me with what I cannot bear. You are my true and real God (Ilah). O Radiant of proof, O Strong of pillars, O He whose mercy is in every place and in this place, O He of whom no place is devoid, guard me with Your eye that does not sleep, and protect me with Your pillar that cannot be aimed at, for my heart is certain that there is no deity but You, and that I will not perish while You are with me, O my Hope, so have mercy on me by Your power over me. O Great One (Ya Aziman) who is hoped for every great matter, O Knowing (Ya Alim), O Forbearing (Ya Halim), You are Knowing (Alim) of my need and Capable (Qadir) of my deliverance, and it is easy for You, so bestow favor upon me by fulfilling it, O Most Generous of the generous (Ya Akram Al-Akramin), O Most Bountiful of the bountiful (Ya Ajwad Al-Ajwadin), O Swiftest of reckoners (Ya Asra' Al-Hasibin), O Lord (Ya Rabb) of the worlds, have mercy on me and have mercy on the entire nation of Muhammad, peace and blessings of God be upon him, indeed You are Capable (Qadir) over all things. O God (Allah), answer us as You answered them by Your mercy, Your bounty, and Your elevation in the highness of Your sky, O Most Merciful of the merciful (Ya Arham Al-Rahimin), indeed You are Capable (Qadir) over what You will, and may God send blessings upon our master Muhammad, the seal of the prophets, and upon his family and all his companions.

(39) O God (Allah), send blessings upon our master Muhammad, the luminous tree of origin, the flash of the Merciful handful, the best of human creation, the most honorable of bodily forms, the source of divine secrets, and the treasuries of chosen sciences; the possessor of the original handful, the radiant splendor, and the elevated rank; under whose banner the prophets are enlisted, for they are from him and return to him. Send blessings, peace, and benedictions upon him and upon his family and companions, according to the number of what You have created, provided for, caused to die, and brought to life, until the day You resurrect those You have annihilated, and send abundant peace, and praise be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the worlds.

(40) O God (Allah), send blessings, peace, and benedictions upon the light of lights, the secret of secrets, the antidote for others, and the key to the door of ease, our master Muhammad the Chosen, and his pure family and his excellent companions, according to the number of the blessings of God (Allah) and His favors.

**(The Highest Role / Al-Dawr Al-A'la by my master Muhyi al-Din Ibn Arabi, may God be pleased with him)**

(41) In the name of God (Allah), The Compassionate (Al-Rahman), The Merciful (Al-Rahim). O God (Allah), O Living (Ya Hayy), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum), in You I have sought fortification, so protect me with the protection of sufficiency, guarding, and a sanctuary of safety. In the name of God (Allah) (Whatever God wills, there is no power except by God) I have entered into the protection of God (Allah) and I have sought asylum with the Messenger of God, peace and blessings of God be upon him. O God (Allah), O Most High (Ya Ali), O Great (Ya Azim), make the veil of preservation and salvation shine for me, (and hold firmly to the rope of God all together). O God (Ya Allah), O All-Encompassing (Ya Muhit), O Capable (Ya Qadir), wall me with a wall of safety, encompassing, realm of dominion (Malakut), might, and greatness (that is better, that is from the signs of God). And give me refuge O Watchful (Ya Raqib), O Responder (Ya Mujib), and guard me in myself, my religion, my family, my wealth, my children, and my home with the guardianship of giving refuge and rescue (and it will not harm them in anything except by the permission of God). And protect me O Preventer (Ya Mani'), O Defender (Ya Dafi'), by the right of Your Names, Your signs, and Your words, from the evil of the devil and the ruler, for if anyone from Your creation transgresses against me, fearing the punishment of God, then save me from their evil (O He in whose hand is the dominion of everything and He protects while none can protect against Him). And assist me against them and their helpers (with that by which the prophets and messengers overcame), (for God has forsaken him) and sealed his hearing and his heart and placed a covering over his vision, so who will guide him after God? And suffice me O Withholder (Ya Qabid), O Subduer (Ya Qahhar), against the deception of their plotting, and turn them away from me condemned and defeated (so they had no group to help them besides God). And make me taste O Supremely Pure (Ya Subbuh), O Most Holy (Ya Quddus) the sweetness of intimate discourse (approach and do not fear, indeed you are among the secure ones in Our sanctuary). And suffice me O Sufficient One (Ya Kafi) the evil of what I fear and dread (indeed We have sufficed you against the mockers) (so God will suffice you against them, and He is The All-Hearing, The All-Knowing), by the right of Ta-Ha, Ya-Sin, Qaf, and the Glorious Quran.

And there is no power nor strength except by God (Allah), by the verse (the remainder of God is better for you if you are believers). And protect me from the evil of what I fear and dread by the perfect words of God. And clothe me O Mighty (Ya Aziz), O Honorer (Ya Mu'izz), with the robe of reverence, pride, majesty, authority, dominion, and might (and do not let their speech grieve you, indeed all might belongs to God entirely). And clothe me O Majestic (Ya Jalil), O Great (Ya Kabir), with the robe of majesty, beauty, perfection, and acceptance (so when they saw him, they greatly admired him and cut their hands and said, God forbid). And cast upon me O Mighty (Ya Aziz), O Loving (Ya Wadud), a love from You by which You unite the hearts of Your servants (they love them as they love God, but those who believe are stronger in love for God). And manifest upon me O Manifest (Ya Zahir), O Hidden (Ya Batin), the traces, secrets, and lights of (He loves them and they love Him, humble toward the believers, stern toward the disbelievers, striving in the path of God). And direct, O God (Allah), my face with the purity, beauty, and radiance of (so if they turn away, say, sufficient for me is God, there is no deity but Him, upon Him I have relied and He is the Lord of the Great Throne). And beautify me O Originator (Ya Badi') of the heavens and the earth, O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Ya Dha Al-Jalal wa Al-Ikram), with a tongue of eloquence and rhetoric (and untie the knot from my tongue so they may understand my speech), with the tenderness of compassion (then their skins and their hearts soften to the remembrance of God). And gird me O Severe in Grasp (Ya Shadida Al-Batsh), O Compeller (Ya Jabbar), with the sword of awe, severity, and invincibility from the might of Your compulsion (and victory is not but from God). And perfect upon me O Expander (Ya Basit), O Opener (Ya Fattah), the joy of delight (My Lord, expand for me my breast and ease for me my task) with the subtleties of recognitions (Did We not expand for you your breast?) and the glad tidings of that day (on that day the believers will rejoice in the victory of God). And descend, O God (Allah), O Gentle (Ya Latif), O Clement (Ya Ra'uf), into my heart faith, tranquility, calmness, and dignity so I may be among (those who believe and whose hearts find tranquility in the remembrance of God). And pour upon me O Patient (Ya Sabur), O Appreciative (Ya Shakur), patience and steadfastness (make our feet firm and grant us victory over the disbelieving people) (how many a small company has overcome a large company by the permission of God, and God is with the patient). And guard me O Preserver (Ya Hafiz), O Watchful (Ya Raqib), from before me, from behind me, from my right, from my left, from above me, and from below me (for him are successive angels before him and behind him, protecting him by the command of God) (and God, from behind them, is Encompassing; rather, it is a glorious Quran, in a preserved slate). And make firm, O God (Allah), my feet so I do not slip or be harmed (and be firm and remember God much so that you may succeed). And grant me victory O Excellent Patron (Ya Ni'ma Al-Mawla) and O Excellent Helper (Ya Ni'ma Al-Nasir) over my enemies, the victory of him to whom it was said (grant victory) and he said (I seek refuge in God from being among the ignorant). O Seeker (Ya Talib), O Overcomer (Ya Ghalib) (God has written: I will surely overcome, I and My messengers; indeed God is Strong, Mighty) and with reverence (Indeed, We have sent you as a witness and a bringer of good tidings and a warner, that you may believe in God and His Messenger, and honor him, and revere him). And suffice me O Sufficer (Ya Kafi) of evils, O Healer (Ya Shafi) of ailments, with the benefits of (If We had sent down this Quran upon a mountain, you would have seen it humbled and cleaving asunder from the fear of God). And bestow favor upon me O Bestower (Ya Wahhab), O Provider (Ya Razzaq), with attainment, arrival, acceptance, facilitation, and arrangement (eat and drink from the provision of God). And inspire me with the word of piety as You inspired Your beloved Muhammad, peace and blessings of God be upon him, when You said (so know that there is no deity but God). And befriend me O Protecting Friend (Ya Wali), O Most High (Ya Ali) with friendship, honor, and forgiveness, with an increase of yielding, granting happiness, and supplying (that is better, that is from the bounty of God). And grant me sovereignty O Rich (Ya Ghani), O Generous (Ya Karim) with the best outcome, sovereignty, honor, and forgiveness (as You honored those who lower their voices in the presence of the Messenger of God). And accept my repentance O Acceptor of Repentance (Ya Tawwab), O Forbearing (Ya Halim) with a sincere repentance so I may be among (those who, when they commit an immorality or wrong themselves, remember God and seek forgiveness for their sins, and who forgives sins except God?). And seal for me O Compassionate (Ya Rahman), O Merciful (Ya Rahim) with the seal of those who are saved and hopeful (O My servants who have transgressed against themselves, do not despair of the mercy of God). And settle me O All-Hearing (Ya Sami'), O Near (Ya Qarib) in the gardens of Eden (their call therein will be, 'Glory be to You, O God,' and their greeting therein will be, 'Peace,' and the last of their call will be, 'Praise be to God, Lord of the worlds'). O God (Ya Allah), O God (Ya Allah), O God (Ya Allah), O Lord (Ya Rabb), O Living (Ya Hayy), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum), O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Ya Dha Al-Jalal wa Al-Ikram), O Most Merciful of the merciful (Ya Arham Al-Rahimin), I ask You by the sanctity of these Names, verses, and words, for a supporting authority, provision, a cool heart, abundant knowledge, righteous deeds, an illuminated grave, an easy reckoning, and a great kingdom in the highest paradise (Al-Firdaws). And may God send blessings upon our master Muhammad and upon his family and all his companions, and send abundant peace until the Day of Judgment, and praise be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the worlds.

## The Second Fortress
**From the book *Mufarrij al-Kurub wa Mufarrih al-Qulub***

(42) In the name of God (Allah), I have relied upon God (Allah), and there is no power nor strength except by God (Allah).

(43) O God (Allah), Reliever of anxiety, Remover of grief, Answerer of the supplication of the desperate, The Compassionate (Rahman) of the world and the Hereafter and their Merciful (Rahimahuma), You have mercy on me, so have mercy on me with a mercy by which You make me independent of the mercy of anyone other than You.

(44) Glory be to You, there is no deity but You, O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Ya Dha Al-Jalal wa Al-Ikram).

(45) O God (Allah), You created me, and You guide me, and You feed me, and You give me drink, and You cause me to die, and You give me life.

(46) O God (Allah), I ask You by Your Highest, Most Majestic, Most Generous Name.

(47) O God (Allah), I ask You for a faith that does not turn back, a bliss that does not deplete, and the companionship of Your Prophet Muhammad, peace and blessings of God be upon him, in the highest degree of Paradise, the Paradise of Eternity.

(48) There is no deity but God (Allah) alone with no partner to Him, God (Allah) is Great with all greatness, there is no deity but God (Allah) alone with no partner to Him. O God (Allah), I ask You by the name of God (Allah), whom there is no deity but Him, The Compassionate (Al-Rahman), The Merciful (Al-Rahim), The Living (Al-Hayy), The Sustainer (Al-Qayyum), whom neither slumber nor sleep overtakes, The Most High (Al-Ali), The Great (Al-Azim), glory be to God (Allah) Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne, and praise be to God (Allah) Lord (Rabb) of the worlds. As if they, on the day they see what they are promised, had not remained [in the world] except an hour of a day. A notification. So will any be destroyed except the defiantly disobedient people? As if they, on the day they see it, had not remained except an evening or its morning.

(49) O God (Allah), I ask You for the requirements of Your mercy, the resolves of Your forgiveness, the spoils of every righteousness, and safety from every sin. O God (Allah), do not leave for me a sin except that You forgive it, nor an anxiety except that You relieve it, nor a debt except that You fulfill it, nor a need among the needs of the world and the Hereafter except that You fulfill it by Your mercy, O Most Merciful of the merciful (Ya Arham Al-Rahimin).

(50) O God (Allah), I seek refuge in You by the light of Your holiness, the blessing of Your purity, and the greatness of Your majesty from every night-knocker except a knocker who knocks with good. O God (Allah), You are my Helper so by You I seek help, and You are my Refuge so in You I seek refuge, and You are my Haven so to You I seek haven. O He to whom the necks of the tyrants have humbled, and to whom the keys of the Pharaohs have submitted, save me from Your disgrace and Your punishment, and protect me in my night, my day, my sleep, and my resting place. There is no deity but You, out of magnification for Your Face and honoring the glorifications of Your Throne, so turn away from me the evil of Your servants, and place me in the protection of Your care and the pavilions of Your guarding, and return to me with good, O Most Merciful of the merciful (Ya Arham Al-Rahimin).

(51) Glory be to God (Allah) and with His praise, glory be to God (Allah), The Great (Al-Azim). There is no power nor strength except by God (Allah), The Most High (Al-Ali), The Great (Al-Azim). O God (Allah), guide me from what is with You, overflow upon me from Your bounty, spread over me from Your mercy, and send down upon me from Your blessings.

(52) O God (Allah), I am weak so strengthen my weakness in Your pleasure, and take me by my forelock towards good, and make Islam the ultimate extent of my pleasure. O God (Allah), I am weak so strengthen me, and I am lowly so honor me, and I am poor so enrich me, O Most Merciful of the merciful (Ya Arham Al-Rahimin).

(53) There is no deity but You, glory be to You, indeed I was of the wrongdoers.

(54) There is no deity but God (Allah), The Forbearing (Al-Halim), The Generous (Al-Karim), there is no deity but God (Allah), The Most High (Al-Ali), The Great (Al-Azim), there is no deity but God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the seven heavens and Lord (Rabb) of the Noble Throne.

(55) There is no deity but God (Allah), The Forbearing (Al-Halim), The Generous (Al-Karim), glory be to God (Allah) and blessed is God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne, and praise be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the worlds.

(56) O God (Allah), it is Your mercy I hope for, so do not leave me to myself for the blink of an eye, and set right for me all of my affairs, there is no deity but You.

(57) O Living (Ya Hayy), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum), by Your mercy I seek help.

(58) God (Allah), God (Allah) is my Lord (Rabb), He has no partner.

(59) O God (Allah), Sovereign of sovereignty (Malik Al-Mulk), You give sovereignty to whom You will and You take away sovereignty from whom You will, You honor whom You will and You humiliate whom You will, in Your hand is [all] good, indeed You are Capable (Qadir) over all things. You cause the night to enter the day and You cause the day to enter the night, You bring the living out of the dead and You bring the dead out of the living, and You provide for whom You will without account. The Compassionate (Rahman) of the world and the Hereafter and their Merciful (Rahim), You give from them to whom You will and You withhold from whom You will; have mercy on me with a mercy by which You make me independent of the mercy of anyone other than You. O God (Allah), enrich me from poverty, pay off the debt for me, and cause me to die in worship of You and striving in Your path.

(60) O God (Allah), be gentle with me in facilitating every difficulty, for facilitating the difficult is easy for You, so I ask You for facilitation and well-being in the world and the Hereafter.

(61) O Loving (Ya Wadud), O Loving (Ya Wadud), O Possessor of the Glorious Throne (Ya Dha Al-Arsh Al-Majid), O Originator (Ya Mubdi'), O Restorer (Ya Mu'id), O Doer of what He wills (Ya Fa'alun lima yurid). I ask You by the light of Your Face which filled the pillars of Your Throne, and I ask You by Your power by which You have power over Your creation, and by Your mercy which encompassed everything. There is no deity but You. O Helper/Savior (Ya Mughith), help me (Three times).

(62) O God (Allah), I seek refuge in You from anxiety and grief, and I seek refuge in You from inability and laziness, and I seek refuge in You from cowardice and miserliness, and I seek refuge in You from the overpowering of debt and the subjugation of men.

*(And from what was reported from some of the Prophets, peace be upon them):*

(63) O True to the promise (Ya Sadiq Al-Wa'd), O Fulfiller of the promise (Ya Munjiz Al-Wa'd), O Reliever of anxiety, O Remover of grief, O He whom nothing can incapacitate, grant me my request.

(64) O Lord (Ya Rabb), I know that I am a servant who has no insight except what You have written for me, and contentment with what You have decreed for me, O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Ya Dha Al-Jalal wa Al-Ikram).

(65) O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Ya Dha Al-Jalal wa Al-Ikram), O Possessor of bounty, there is no deity but You, the Support of those who seek refuge, the Protector of those who seek protection, and the Security of the fearful. I ask You, if I am in the Mother of the Book with You as miserable, then erase my name of misery from me and affirm me with You as felicitous. And if I am in the Mother of the Book deprived and restricted in my provision, then erase from the Mother of the Book my deprivation and restriction, and provide for me, and affirm me with You as felicitous and successful for good.

*(And from what was reported from some of the Companions and others):*

(66) O God (Allah), in Your hand is the loop of patience, so spread it over me, and in Your hand is the untying of the difficult affair, so ease it for me. O God (Allah), You know that I have not trusted anyone besides You in a major or minor matter, and I have not relied except upon You in an easy or difficult matter, and I have not sought refuge with the forbearance of anyone nor relied on anyone else who is generous. And my Lord (Rabb), O God (Allah), I seek Your forgiveness for every sin I repented to You from and then returned to, and I seek Your forgiveness for everything I promised You from myself and then did not fulfill for You, and I seek Your forgiveness for every deed I intended for Your Face but someone else became mixed in it for me, and I seek Your forgiveness for every blessing You bestowed upon me and I used it to aid in disobeying You. O Knower of the unseen and the witnessed, forgive me every sin I committed in the light of day or the blackness of night, in secret or in public, O Most Merciful of the merciful (Ya Arham Al-Rahimin). O my Companion in my hardship, O my Comforter in my loneliness, O my Preserver in my distress, O Granter of my blessing, O Remover of my distress, O Listener to my call, O Merciful to my tear, O Pardoner of my stumble, O my true God (Ilah), O my firm Pillar, O my Compassionate Patron (Mawla), O Lord (Rabb) of the Ancient House, take me out of the ring of the narrow strait to the broadness of the path, and save me from the hand of every strong tyrant, and relieve from me all my distress and constriction. O God (Allah), relieve from me every anxiety and grief, and take me out of every sadness and distress, O Reliever of anxiety, O Remover of grief, O Granter of abundant gifts, and O Answerer of the supplication of the desperate, O Compassionate (Rahman) of the world and the Hereafter and their Merciful (Rahim), send blessings upon the chosen one from Your creation, our master Muhammad the Prophet, peace and blessings of God be upon him, and his good and pure family, and relieve from me what has constricted my chest, exhausted my patience, weakened my stratagem, and diminished my strength. O Remover of every harm and affliction, and O Knower of every secret and hidden thing, O Most Merciful of the merciful (Ya Arham Al-Rahimin). And I entrust my affair to God (Allah), indeed God (Allah) is Seeing of the servants, and my success is not but by God (Allah), upon Him I have relied, and He is the Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne.

(67) O Reliever of distresses, and O Facilitator of the severe, and O Softener of iron, and O He who is every day in a new affair, take me out of the ring of constriction to the widest path, by You I repel what I cannot bear and what I do not want, and there is no power nor strength except by God (Allah), The Most High (Al-Ali), The Great (Al-Azim).

(68) O Savior (Ya Mughith), O Savior (Ya Mughith), O Savior (Ya Mughith). O God (Allah), suffice me what concerns me, and You are The Living (Al-Hayy), The Sustainer (Al-Qayyum), whom there is no deity but You. Reach me with Your hidden gentleness O God (Ya Allah), O He who, when He intends a thing, He only says to it "Be," and it is.

(69) O God (Allah), send blessings upon him from whom the secrets split open, and the lights burst forth, and in whom the realities ascended, and the sciences of Adam descended, rendering the creations incapable. The understandings dwindled before him, so no predecessor or successor among us could comprehend him. The gardens of the realm of dominion (Malakut) are delightful with the flower of his beauty, and the basins of the realm of might (Jabarut) are overflowing with the outpouring of his lights. There is nothing except that it is tied to him, for if it were not for the intermediary, the intercepted would have vanished, as it is said. A blessing befitting You, from You to him, as he is worthy of it. O God (Allah), he is Your comprehensive secret indicating You, and Your supreme veil standing for You before You. O God (Allah), attach me to his lineage, and realize me by his descent, and acquaint me with him through a knowledge by which I am saved from the watering places of ignorance, and by which I drink from the watering places of bounty. Carry me upon his path to Your Presence, a carrying surrounded by Your victory, and hurl me upon falsehood so I may crush it. Plunge me into the seas of pure oneness (Ahadiyyah), and pull me out from the muds of unicity (Tawhid), and drown me in the essence of the sea of unity so that I do not see, hear, find, or sense anything except by it. Make the Supreme Veil the life of my spirit, and his spirit the secret of my reality, and his reality the gatherer of my worlds, through the realization of the First Truth. O First (Ya Awwal), O Last (Ya Akhir), O Manifest (Ya Zahir), O Hidden (Ya Batin), hear my call just as You heard the call of Your servant Zechariah, and grant me victory by You for You, and support me by You for You, and gather me with You, and come between me and other than You. God (Allah), God (Allah), God (Allah). Indeed, He who imposed upon you the Quran will return you to a place of return. Our Lord (Rabbana), grant us mercy from Yourself, and facilitate for us right guidance in our affair. Indeed, God (Allah) and His angels send blessings upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [God to confer] blessings upon him and ask [God to grant him] peace.

(70) O God (Allah), send blessings, peace, and benedictions upon our master Muhammad, the intrinsic light, and the secret flowing in all the Names and Attributes.

**(The Litany of the Sea / Hizb Al-Bahr by my master Abu Al-Hasan Al-Shadhili)**

(71) In the name of God (Allah), The Compassionate (Al-Rahman), The Merciful (Al-Rahim). O Most High (Ya Ali), O Great (Ya Azim), O Forbearing (Ya Halim), O Knowing (Ya Alim). You are my Lord (Rabb), and Your knowledge is my sufficiency. How excellent a Lord (Rabb) is my Lord (Rabb), and how excellent a Sufficiency is my Sufficiency. You grant victory to whom You will, and You are The Mighty (Al-Aziz), The Merciful (Al-Rahim). We ask You for protection in movements, rests, words, intentions, and passing thoughts, from doubts, assumptions, and illusions that veil hearts from viewing the unseen. There the believers were tested and shaken with a severe shaking. And when the hypocrites and those in whose hearts is disease said, "God (Allah) and His Messenger did not promise us except delusion." So make us firm, grant us victory, and subject to us (this sea), just as You subjected the sea for Moses, and You subjected the fire for Abraham, and You subjected the mountains and iron for David, and You subjected the jinn and devils for Solomon. And subject to us every sea that is Yours in the earth and the sky, the dominion (Mulk) and the realm of dominion (Malakut), the sea of this world and the sea of the Hereafter. And subject to us everything, O He in whose hand is the dominion of everything. Kaf Ha Ya Ayn Sad (Three times). Grant us victory, for You are the Best of victors (Khayr Al-Nasirin). And open for us, for You are the Best of openers (Khayr Al-Fatihin). And forgive us, for You are the Best of forgivers (Khayr Al-Ghafirin). And have mercy on us, for You are the Best of merciful ones (Khayr Al-Rahimin). And provide for us, for You are the Best of providers (Khayr Al-Raziqin). And guide us and save us from the wrongdoing people. And grant us a good wind as it is in Your knowledge, and spread it over us from the treasuries of Your mercy. And carry us by it with the carrying of honor, along with safety and well-being in religion, the world, and the Hereafter, indeed You are Capable (Qadir) over all things. O God (Allah), facilitate our affairs for us with comfort for our hearts and bodies, and safety and well-being in our religion and our world. And be for us a companion in our journey, and a successor [caretaker] among our family. And obliterate the faces of our enemies and freeze them in their places so they cannot proceed nor come towards us. And if We willed, We could have obliterated their eyes, and they would race to the path, but how could they see? And if We willed, We could have deformed them in their places, so they would not be able to proceed, nor could they return. Ya-Sin. By the wise Quran. Indeed you are among the messengers. On a straight path. The revelation of The Mighty (Al-Aziz), The Merciful (Al-Rahim). That you may warn a people whose forefathers were not warned, so they are unaware. The word has certainly proved true against most of them, so they do not believe. Indeed, We have put shackles on their necks, and they are to their chins, so they are with heads raised up. And We have put before them a barrier and behind them a barrier and covered them, so they do not see. Defaced be the faces (Three times). And faces will be humbled to The Living (Al-Hayy), The Sustainer (Al-Qayyum). And he will have failed who carries injustice. Ta-Sin. Ha-Mim Ayn-Sin-Qaf. He released the two seas, meeting; between them is a barrier they do not transgress. Ha-Mim, Ha-Mim, Ha-Mim, Ha-Mim, Ha-Mim, Ha-Mim, Ha-Mim. The matter has been decreed and the victory has come, so against us they will not be victorious. Ha-Mim. The revelation of the Book is from God (Allah), The Mighty (Al-Aziz), The Knowing (Al-Alim). The Forgiver of sin, Acceptor of repentance, Severe in punishment, Owner of abundance. There is no deity except Him; to Him is the destination. In the name of God (Allah) is our door, blessed be our walls, Ya-Sin is our roof, Kaf-Ha-Ya-Ayn-Sad is our sufficiency, Ha-Mim-Ayn-Sin-Qaf is our protection. So God (Allah) will suffice you against them, and He is The All-Hearing (Al-Sami'), The All-Knowing (Al-Alim) (Three times). The veil of the Throne is dropped over us, and the eye of God (Allah) is looking at us. By the power of God (Allah), none can overpower us. And God (Allah), from behind them, is Encompassing. Rather, it is a glorious Quran. In a preserved slate. So God (Allah) is the best guardian, and He is the Most Merciful of the merciful (Arham Al-Rahimin) (Three times). Indeed, my protector is God (Allah), who sent down the Book; and He protects the righteous (Three times). Sufficient for me is God (Allah), there is no deity but Him, upon Him I have relied, and He is the Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne (Three times). And there is no power nor strength except by God (Allah), The Most High (Al-Ali), The Great (Al-Azim) (Three times). In the name of God (Allah), with whose Name nothing in the earth or in the sky can harm, and He is The All-Hearing (Al-Sami'), The All-Knowing (Al-Alim) (Three times). I seek refuge in the perfect words of God (Allah) from the evil of what He created (Three times). And may God (Allah) send blessings upon our master Muhammad and upon his family and companions and grant them peace.

## The Third Fortress
**From the book *Mufarrij al-Kurub wa Mufarrih al-Qulub***

(72) In the name of God (Allah), The Compassionate (Al-Rahman), The Merciful (Al-Rahim), Possessor of status, Great in proof, Severe in authority, what God (Allah) wills has been, I seek refuge in God (Allah) from the devil.

(73) God (Allah), there is no deity but Him, The Living (Al-Hayy), The Sustainer (Al-Qayyum). Neither slumber nor sleep overtakes Him. To Him belongs whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth. Who is it that can intercede with Him except by His permission? He knows what is before them and what will be after them, and they encompass not a thing of His knowledge except for what He wills. His Kursi extends over the heavens and the earth, and their preservation tires Him not. And He is The Most High (Al-Ali), The Great (Al-Azim).

(74) O God (Allah), guard me with Your eye that does not sleep, and protect me with Your pillar that cannot be aimed at, and have mercy on me by Your power over me. I will not perish while You are my hope. How many a blessing You have bestowed upon me for which my gratitude to You was little, and how many an affliction You tested me with for which my patience before You was little. O He for whom my gratitude was little upon His blessings yet He did not deprive me, and O He for whom my patience was little upon His affliction yet He did not forsake me, and O He who saw me upon sins yet did not expose me! I ask You to send blessings upon Muhammad and upon the family of Muhammad just as You sent blessings, benedictions, and mercy upon Abraham, indeed You are Praiseworthy (Hamid), Glorious (Majid). O God (Allah), assist me in my religion with the world, and in my Hereafter with piety. Guard me in what I am absent from, and do not leave me to myself in what I am present for. O He whom sins do not harm, and whom forgiveness does not diminish, grant me what does not harm You and forgive me what does not diminish You. O God (Allah), I ask You for a near relief, a beautiful patience, and I ask You for well-being from every affliction, and I ask You for complete well-being, and I ask You for continuous well-being, and I ask You for gratitude for the well-being, and I ask You for independence from people, and I ask You for safety from every evil, and there is no power nor strength except by God (Allah), The Most High (Al-Ali), The Great (Al-Azim).

(75) There is no deity but God (Allah) before everything, and there is no deity but God (Allah) after everything, and there is no deity but God (Allah); our Lord (Rabb) remains, and everything perishes.

(76) There is no deity but God (Allah), The Forbearing (Al-Halim), The Generous (Al-Karim). Glory be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the seven heavens and Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne, and praise be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the worlds. O God (Allah), I seek refuge in You from the evil of Your servants.

(77) I testify that God (Allah) is the Evident Truth (Al-Haqq Al-Mubin), and that He gives life and causes death, and that the Hour is coming, there is no doubt in it, and that God (Allah) will resurrect those in the graves (Four times).

(78) God (Allah), God (Allah), He has no partner.

(79) God (Allah), God (Allah), God (Allah) is my Lord (Rabb), I do not associate anything with Him.

(80) Our Lord (Rabbana) is God (Allah), He has no partner. Glory be to God (Allah), The King (Al-Malik), The Most Holy (Al-Quddus), Lord (Rabb) of the angels and the Spirit. You have covered the heavens and the earth with might and supreme power. O God (Allah), indeed You are Living (Hayy) and do not die. I ask You by The Living (Al-Hayy), The Sustainer (Al-Qayyum), and by the light of Your Generous Face, and by the right of Muhammad over You, amen.

(81) O Light (Ya Nur) of the heavens and the earth, O Adornment (Ya Zayn) of the heavens and the earth, O Compeller (Ya Jabbar) of the heavens and the earth, O Pillar (Ya Imad) of the heavens and the earth, O Originator (Ya Badi') of the heavens and the earth, O Sustainer (Ya Qiyam) of the heavens and the earth, O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Ya Dha Al-Jalal wa Al-Ikram), O Answerer of the cries of those who cry out, O Savior of those who seek salvation, O ultimate goal of the desirers, the Reliever of the distressed, the Gladdener of the grief-stricken, and the Responder to the supplication of the desperate, and the Remover of distress, O God (Ilah) of the worlds, and O Most Merciful of the merciful (Ya Arham Al-Rahimin), every need is landed with You (and mention your need).

(82) O Light (Ya Nur) of the heavens and the earth, O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Ya Dha Al-Jalal wa Al-Ikram), O Living (Ya Hayy), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum), O Compassionate (Ya Rahman), O Merciful (Ya Rahim), O Responder to the supplication of the desperate, O Compassionate (Rahman) of the world and the Hereafter and their Merciful (Rahimahuma), have mercy on me with a mercy by which You make me independent of the mercy of anyone other than You.

(83) O God (Allah), I seek refuge in You from anxiety and grief, and I seek refuge in You from inability and laziness, and I seek refuge in You from cowardice and miserliness, and I seek refuge in You from the overpowering of debt and the subjugation of men.

(84) O God (Allah), suffice me with Your lawful things against Your prohibited things, and enrich me with Your bounty against anyone other than You.

(85) O God (Allah), conceal our faults and calm our fears.

(86) O God (Allah), You are my Lord (Rabb), there is no deity but You, upon You I have relied, and You are the Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne. There is no power nor strength except by God (Allah), The Most High (Al-Ali), The Great (Al-Azim). What God (Allah) wills has been, and what He does not will has not been. I know that God (Allah) is Capable (Qadir) over all things and that God (Allah) has encompassed all things in knowledge. O God (Allah), I seek refuge in You from the evil of my self and from the evil of every creature whose forelock You grasp, indeed my Lord (Rabb) is on a straight path.

(87) I have relied upon The Living (Al-Hayy) who does not die, and praise be to God (Allah) who has not taken a son, and has no partner in the dominion, and does not have a protecting friend (Wali) out of weakness, and magnify Him with all magnification.

(88) O God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the seven heavens and Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne, suffice me every anxiety from wherever You will and however You will.

(89) O God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the seven heavens and Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne, be a protector for me against the evil of (so-and-so son of so-and-so) and his parties from Your creations, lest any of them hasten against me or transgress. Mighty is Your protection, and glorious is Your praise, and there is no deity other than You.

*(And from what was reported from some of the Prophets, peace and blessings be upon them):*

(90) O God (Allah), I am weak, I cannot repel what I dislike nor do I possess the benefit of what I hope for. The affairs have become in Your hand, not in the hand of anyone else, and I have become a hostage to my deeds, so there is no poor person poorer than me. O God (Allah), do not make my enemy gloat over me, nor cause my friend to be saddened by me, nor make my calamity in my religion, nor make the world my greatest concern, nor the limit of my knowledge, nor the goal of my hope, and do not impose upon me one who will not have mercy on me.

(91) In the name of God (Allah), what God (Allah) wills, there is no power except by God (Allah). What God (Allah) wills, every blessing is from God (Allah). What God (Allah) wills, all good is in the hand of God (Allah). What God (Allah) wills.

(92) O Gentle One (Ya Latifan) above every gentle one, be gentle with me in all my affairs as You love and are pleased with, in my world and my Hereafter.

*(And from what was reported from some of the righteous among the Companions and others):*

(93) O God (Allah), I call upon You as God (Allah), and I call upon You as The Compassionate (Al-Rahman), The Merciful (Al-Rahim), and I call upon You by all Your Beautiful Names, what I know of them and what I do not know, that You forgive me.

(94) My God (Ilah) and the God (Ilah) of everything, One God (Ilahan Wahidan), there is no deity but You, do with me such-and-such.

(95) O God (Allah), I ask You from all good concerning which my stratagem has narrowed, that You give me from it what my desire had not reached and had not crossed my mind, and I ask You from every good that You promised anyone of Your creation, indeed You are Capable (Qadir) over all things.

(96) O God (Allah), I ask You by Your Names, which if You are called upon by them, You answer, and if You are asked by them, You give. O He whom questioners do not confuse, O He whose hearing does not distract Him from hearing, O He who is not bothered by the insistence of those who insist, O He who knows the number of everything and nothing escapes Him, O He whose bounty does not cease and whose number cannot be counted.

(97) O God (Allah), I ask You by Your Stored, Hidden, Blessed, Purified, Pure, Holy Name.

(98) O God (Ya Allah), O Compassionate (Ya Rahman), O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Ya Dha Al-Jalal wa Al-Ikram).

(99) O Reliever of anxiety, and O Remover of grief, O True to the promise (Ya Sadiq Al-Wa'd), O Fulfiller of the covenant (Ya Mufiyan bi-Al-Ahd), O Fulfiller of the promise (Ya Munjiz Al-Wa'd), O Living (Ya Hayy), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum), there is no deity but You.

(100) O God (Allah), with whom would I seek refuge if I did not seek refuge with You so that You answer me? O God (Allah), to whom would I humbly entreat if I did not humbly entreat You so that You have mercy on me? O God (Allah), with whom would I seek help if I did not seek help with You so that You enrich me?

(101) O God (Allah), I have no one to take refuge with other than You, and I do not seek aid except by You. I ask You by the obedience of the souls returning to their bodies, and by the obedience of the bodies welding with their veins, and by the obedience of the graves splitting open for their inhabitants, and by Your truthful call among them, and Your hoping, that You prevent from me the evil of the creatures away from me out of fear of You, and paralyze Your authority [i.e., let those who fear Your authority] look at You, fear You, and flee from Your punishment. I ask You to place light in my vision, sincerity in my action, gratitude in my heart, and Your remembrance on my tongue in the night and the day for as long as You keep me alive.

(102) O Great One (Ya Kabiran) above every great one, O my God (Ilah) and the God (Ilah) of my forefathers, O Living (Ya Hayy), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum), O He who judges by His knowledge, O He who suffices against everyone while no one suffices against Him, O God (Ya Allah), O Lord (Rabb) of Muhammad, peace and blessings of God be upon him, forgive me (and he asks his need).

(103) Our Lord (Rabbana), pour upon us patience and let us die as Muslims. O Living (Ya Hayy), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum), O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Ya Dha Al-Jalal wa Al-Ikram), I ask You to send blessings upon Muhammad and to fulfill my need regarding such-and-such. There is no deity but You, glory be to You, indeed I was of the wrongdoers. So We responded to him and saved him from the distress, and thus do We save the believers. And We will surely test you with something of fear and hunger and a loss of wealth and lives and fruits, but give good tidings to the patient, who, when disaster strikes them, say, "Indeed we belong to God (Allah), and indeed to Him we will return." Those are the ones upon whom are blessings from their Lord (Rabb) and mercy, and it is those who are the [rightly] guided. Those to whom hypocrites said, "Indeed, the people have gathered against you, so fear them." But it [merely] increased them in faith, and they said, "Sufficient for us is God (Allah), and He is an excellent Disposer of affairs (Al-Wakil)." So they returned with favor from God (Allah) and bounty, no harm having touched them. And they pursued the pleasure of God (Allah), and God (Allah) is the possessor of great bounty. And Job, when he called to his Lord (Rabb), "Indeed, adversity has touched me, and you are the Most Merciful of the merciful (Arham Al-Rahimin)." So We responded to him and removed what afflicted him of adversity. And We gave him [back] his family and the like thereof with them as mercy from Us and a reminder for the worshippers. And I entrust my affair to God (Allah), indeed God (Allah) is Seeing of the servants.

(104) O God (Allah), I ask You, for You are our Sovereign (Malik), and You are Capable (Qadir) over all things, Omnipotent (Muqtadir), and whatever You will of an affair comes to be.

(105) O God (Allah), send blessings and peace upon Your highest light, Your most splendid secret, Your most elevated beloved, Your purest chosen one, the intermediary of the people of love, the Qibla of the people of nearness; the spirit of the heavenly (Malakuti) viewings, the slate of the sustaining (Qayyumi) secrets, the translator of pre-eternity and eternity, the tongue of the unseen which no one encompasses. The image of the singular reality, and the hiddenness of the image adorned with Compassionate (Rahmani) lights. The human of God (Allah) specifically designated to express about Him, the secret of the capability of possible readiness receiving from Him. The most praised (Ahmad) of those who praised and were praised before his Lord (Rabb), the praised one (Muhammad), the hidden and the manifest by the activation of the intrinsic perfection in the ranks of His nearness. The goal of the two ends of the prophetic cycle connected to the First, in observation and supply, beginning with the dot of existential reaction in guidance and giving happiness. The trustee of God (Allah) over the talismanic secret of Divinity (Uluhiyyah), and His preserver over the unuttered unseen of Godhood (Lahutiyyah). He for whose sake, were it not for him, the garden of letters would not stand before Him, and the souls of the gnostics do not scoop from his reality except what is scooped for them by him from the vessels of recognition in the resolves of the gnostics, and they have reached what separated the world of natures. The target of the visions of the monotheists, toward which they aspired to witness the comprehensive secret. He through whose secret's clearing—which is the absolute light—the rays of God (Allah) do not manifest to a heart except through it, and His psalms are not dictated to an ear except by the resonance of his remembrance, and he is the single of the pair. Ruled with ignorance is anyone who claims the knowledge of God (Allah) abstracted, in reality, from his Muhammadan restriction. The corporeal branch growing in its development with what supplies every eternal root. The harvested fruit of the hearts, the essence of the two originations of existence and non-existence. The servant of God (Allah), the truth of the Lord (Al-Rabb), by whom is the perfection of perfection, and the worshipper of God (Allah) by God (Allah) without incarnation, unification, connection, or separation. The caller to God (Allah) on a straight path, the prophet of the prophets, and the supplier of the chosen ones. Upon him intrinsically, and upon them, be the best of blessings and the most honorable of peace.

(106) O God (Allah), send blessings and peace upon the beauty of the exclusive presences, the majesty of the chosen realities. The one overlooking with Your light into the depths of eras and ages, Your sword in the easts of the earth and its wests, the mighty, unique, absolute (Samadiyyah), and the sultan of the gnostic realities. He who described You with what You described Yourself in Your Names and Attributes, the level of the manifestation of Your greatness, Your mercy, and Your wisdom in all universes. He by whose light the visions of the excellent ones were perfected, and who veiled from every blear-eyed person what You left behind in his origination, for You of secrets. You split the seas of gathering with the word of his Muhammadan specificity, and You elevated him in Your recognition to witnessing Your beauty and Your address by heart, sight, and hearing. The bewilderment of everyone's guidance fell short of his station, and You made him, by the ruling of Your absolute oneness (Ahadiyyah) and the light of the continuity of Your hidden Throne, with the tongue of Your wisdom speaking, our master Muhammad, and upon his family, companions, partisans, inheritors, and his group, Amen, O Lord (Rabb) of the worlds.

(107) O God (Allah), send blessings and peace upon the circle of the greatest encompassment, the center of the circumference of Your highest orbit. Your servant specified from the hearts of Your creations with the love of Your greatness; no one realizes the essence of Your majesty except by You in the crowns of Your lights which the winds of the absolute (Samadani) determination have battered, so the crown of the beauty of the army of his light, which the instruments of its regiments hastened. Your vicegerent over the trust of Your creation, Your trustee over all Your righteousness, from the ultimate of the praised, glorious one. In praising him is the admission of inability to count his attributes, and the ultimate of elevation is exaggeration. O God (Allah), send blessings upon a Prophet described with the 'Thaa' on his noble traits and structures, our master and the master of everyone who was before him with verses from that which You favored him by You for You, issuing and arriving. And upon his noble family, his great companions, and his magnificent inheritors. Praise be to God (Allah), and peace be upon His servants whom He has chosen (Seven times). Then he says: Glory be to your Lord (Rabb), the Lord (Rabb) of might, above what they describe. And peace be upon the messengers. And praise be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the worlds. (And he reads Al-Fatihah for the originator of these prayers, my master Muhammad Al-Bakri, and says): Our Lord (Rabbana), accept from us, indeed You are The All-Hearing (Al-Sami'), The All-Knowing (Al-Alim). And accept our repentance, indeed You are The Acceptor of Repentance (Al-Tawwab), The Merciful (Al-Rahim). And may God (Allah) send blessings and peace upon our master Muhammad and upon his brothers among the prophets and messengers, and praise be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the worlds.

**(The Litany / Hizb of my master Muhyi al-Din Yahya Al-Nawawi, may God be pleased with him)**

(108) In the name of God (Allah), The Compassionate (Al-Rahman), The Merciful (Al-Rahim). In the name of God (Allah), God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar), God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar), God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar). I say upon myself, my religion, my family, my children, my wealth, my companions, their religions, and their wealth, a thousand "In the name of God (Allah), God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar), God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar), God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar)." I say upon myself, my religion, my family, my children, my wealth, my companions, their religions, and their wealth, a thousand thousand "In the name of God (Allah), God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar), God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar), God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar)." I say upon myself, my religion, my family, my children, my wealth, my companions, their religions, and their wealth, a thousand thousand "There is no power nor strength except by God (Allah), The Most High (Al-Ali), The Great (Al-Azim)." In the name of God (Allah), and by God (Allah), and from God (Allah), and to God (Allah), and upon God (Allah), and in God (Allah), and there is no power nor strength except by God (Allah), The Most High (Al-Ali), The Great (Al-Azim). In the name of God (Allah) upon my religion, myself, and my children. In the name of God (Allah) upon my wealth and my family. In the name of God (Allah) upon everything my Lord (Rabb) has given me. In the name of God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the seven heavens, Lord (Rabb) of the seven earths, and Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne: In the name of God (Allah), with whose Name nothing in the earth or in the sky can harm, and He is The All-Hearing (Al-Sami'), The All-Knowing (Al-Alim) (Three times). In the name of God (Allah), the best of names in the earth and in the sky. In the name of God (Allah) I begin, and with it I conclude. God (Allah), God (Allah), God (Allah), God (Allah) is my Lord (Rabb), I do not associate anyone with Him. God (Allah), God (Allah), God (Allah), God (Allah) is my Lord (Rabb), there is no deity but God (Allah). God (Allah) is mightier, more majestic, and greater than what I fear and dread. O God (Allah), I seek refuge in You from the evil of myself, from the evil of others, and from the evil of what my Lord (Rabb) has created, originated, and made. And by You, O God (Allah), I protect myself from them, and by You, O God (Allah), I seek refuge from their evils, and by You, O God (Allah), I repel [their plots] into their necks. And I place before me and before them: In the name of God (Allah), The Compassionate (Al-Rahman), The Merciful (Al-Rahim) (Say: He is God (Allah), One (Ahad). God (Allah), the Absolute (Al-Samad). He neither begets nor is born. And there is none comparable to Him). And the like of that on my right and their right, and the like of that on my left and their left, and the like of that from in front of me and in front of them, and the like of that from behind me and behind them, and the like of that from above me and above them, and the like of that from below me and below them, and the like of that encompassing me and them. O God (Allah), I ask You for myself and for them from Your good by Your good which no one else possesses. O God (Allah), place me and them in Your servitude, Your refuge, Your dependents, Your neighborhood, Your security, Your sanctuary, Your party, and Your refuge from every devil, ruler, human, jinn, transgressor, envier, beast, snake, scorpion, and from every creature whose forelock You grasp, indeed my Lord (Rabb) is on a straight path. Sufficient for me is the Lord (Al-Rabb) over the ruled, sufficient for me is the Creator (Al-Khaliq) over the created, sufficient for me is the Provider (Al-Razzaq) over those provided for, sufficient for me is the Concealer (Al-Satir) over the concealed, sufficient for me is the Helper (Al-Nasir) over those helped, sufficient for me is the Subduer (Al-Qahir) over the subdued, sufficient for me is He who is my sufficiency, sufficient for me is He who has never ceased to be my sufficiency, sufficient for me is God (Allah) and He is the excellent Disposer of affairs (Al-Wakil), sufficient for me is God (Allah) against all of His creation. (Indeed, my protector is God (Allah), who sent down the Book; and He protects the righteous). (And when you recite the Quran, We place between you and those who do not believe in the Hereafter a concealed partition. And We have placed over their hearts coverings, lest they understand it, and in their ears deafness. And when you mention your Lord (Rabb) in the Quran alone, they turn back in aversion). (So if they turn away, say, sufficient for me is God (Allah), there is no deity but Him, upon Him I have relied, and He is the Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne) (Seven times). And there is no power nor strength except by God (Allah), The Most High (Al-Ali), The Great (Al-Azim). And may God (Allah) send blessings upon our master Muhammad and upon his family and companions and grant them peace. Then you blow without saliva onto your right three times, onto your left three times, in front of you three times, and behind you three times, then you say: Ha-Mim, Ha-Mim, Ha-Mim, in the sanctuary of (In the name of God (Allah), The Compassionate (Al-Rahman), The Merciful (Al-Rahim)), it has, by the lock of God (Allah), its keys, there is no power nor strength except by God (Allah). I defend by You, O God (Allah), for myself against what I can bear and what I cannot bear. There is no capability for a created being along with the power of the Creator (Al-Khaliq). Sufficient for me is God (Allah), and He is the excellent Disposer of affairs (Al-Wakil). And may God (Allah) send blessings upon our master Muhammad and upon his family and companions and grant them peace.

## The Fourth Fortress
**From the book *Mufarrij al-Kurub wa Mufarrih al-Qulub***

(109) In the name of God (Allah), with whose Name nothing in the earth or in the sky can harm, and He is The All-Hearing (Al-Sami'), The All-Knowing (Al-Alim). In the name of God (Allah) upon myself and my religion, in the name of God (Allah) upon my family and my wealth, in the name of God (Allah) upon everything my Lord (Rabb) has given me. God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar), God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar), God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar). My Lord (Rabb) is God (Allah), I do not associate anything with Him. Mighty is Your protection, and glorious is Your praise, and holy are Your Names, and there is no deity other than You. O God (Allah), I seek refuge in You from every stubborn tyrant, and a rebellious devil, and from the evil of a bad decree, and from the evil of every creature whose forelock You grasp, indeed my Lord (Rabb) is on a straight path.

(110) There is no power nor strength except by God (Allah).

(111) O God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the seven heavens and what is in them, and Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne, Lord (Rabb) of Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, be a protector for me against (so-and-so) and his followers, lest any of them hasten against me or transgress against me. Mighty is Your protection, and glorious is Your praise, and there is no deity but You, and there is no power nor strength except by You.

(112) O God (Allah), indeed we place You in their necks, and we seek refuge in You from their evils.

(113) God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar), God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar). In the name of God (Allah) upon myself and my religion. In the name of God (Allah) upon my family and my wealth. In the name of God (Allah) upon everything my Lord (Rabb) has given me. In the name of God (Allah), the best of names. In the name of God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the earth and the sky. In the name of God (Allah), with whose Name nothing can harm. In the name of God (Allah) I began, and upon God (Allah) I have relied. God (Allah), God (Allah) is my Lord (Rabb), I do not associate anyone with Him. I ask You, O God (Allah), for Your good from Your good which no one else gives. Mighty is Your protection, and there is no deity but You. O God (Allah), place me in Your refuge and Your neighborhood from every evil and from the accursed devil. O God (Allah), I seek sanctuary in You from everything You created and I take caution by You from them, and I place before me (Say: He is God (Allah), One (Ahad)...) and from behind me, and from my right, and from my left, and from above me, and from below me.

(114) Glory be to God (Allah), The Great (Al-Azim), O Living (Ya Hayy), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum).

(115) O God (Allah), I ask You by the fact that to You belongs all praise, there is no deity but You, O Compassionate (Ya Hannan), O Bestower (Ya Mannan), O Originator (Ya Badi') of the heavens and the earth, O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Ya Dha Al-Jalal wa Al-Ikram), O Living (Ya Hayy), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum).

(116) O God (Allah), I ask You by the fact that You are God (Allah), there is no deity but You, The One (Al-Ahad), The Absolute (Al-Samad), who neither begets nor is born, and there is none comparable to Him.

(117) O God (Allah), I ask You by the fact that to You belongs all praise, there is no deity but You, Originator (Badi') of the heavens and the earth, O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Ya Dha Al-Jalal wa Al-Ikram).

(118) O God (Allah), I ask You by Your beautiful Names: O God (Ya Allah), O Compassionate (Ya Rahman), O Merciful (Ya Rahim), O Living (Ya Hayy), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum), and by Your Great, Greatest Name, and by Your Big, Biggest Name.

(119) There is no deity but God (Allah) alone with no partner to Him, God (Allah) is Great with all greatness, in the name of God (Allah) whom there is no deity but Him, The Living (Al-Hayy), The Wise (Al-Hakim), glory be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne. As if they, on the day they see what they are promised, had not remained [in the world] except an hour of a day. A notification. So will any be destroyed except the defiantly disobedient people? As if they, on the day they see it, had not remained except an evening or its morning. O God (Allah), I ask You for the requirements of Your mercy, the resolves of Your forgiveness, the spoils of every righteousness, and safety from every sin. O God (Allah), do not leave for me a sin except that You forgive it, nor an anxiety except that You relieve it, nor a debt except that You fulfill it, nor a need among the needs of the world and the Hereafter except that You fulfill it by Your mercy, O Most Merciful of the merciful (Ya Arham Al-Rahimin).

(120) O Sovereign (Ya Malik) of the Day of Judgment, it is You we worship and You we ask for help.

(121) In the name of God (Allah), with whose Name nothing in the earth or in the sky can harm, and He is The All-Hearing (Al-Sami'), The All-Knowing (Al-Alim) (Three times).

(122) There is no deity but God (Allah), The Forbearing (Al-Halim), The Generous (Al-Karim). Glory be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the seven heavens, Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne, and praise be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the worlds. There is no deity but God (Allah), The Most High (Al-Ali), The Great (Al-Azim). There is no deity but God (Allah), The Forbearing (Al-Halim), The Generous (Al-Karim). Glory be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the heavens and Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne, and praise be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the worlds.

*(And from what was reported from some of the Prophets, peace be upon them):*

(123) What God (Allah) wills.

(124) I ask You, O God (Ya Allah), The Near (Al-Qarib), The Responder (Al-Mujib), The Preserver (Al-Hafiz), The Clement (Al-Ra'uf), The Merciful (Al-Rahim). O God (Ya Allah), The Living (Al-Hayy), The Beautiful (Al-Jamil), The Strong (Al-Qawi), The Standing (Al-Qa'im). O God (Ya Allah), The Living (Al-Hayy), The Sustainer (Al-Qayyum), who stands over every soul for what it has earned, to protect me in the world and the Hereafter.

(125) O God (Allah), I ask You from all goodness, what I know of it and what I do not know. And I seek refuge in You from all evil, what I know of it and what I do not know. And I ask You by Your Big, Great Name that filled all the pillars, to withhold from me the harm of what I entered the evening in.

(126) O Great of goodness (Ya Kabir Al-Khayr), O Possessor of favor (Ya Dha Al-Ma'ruf).

(127) O God (Allah), make for me from everything that concerns me and distresses me of the affairs of my world and my Hereafter a relief and a way out, and provide for me from where I do not expect, and forgive me my sin, and plant firmly the hope in You within my heart, and sever it from anyone other than You so that I hope for no one other than You.

(128) O God (Allah), by Your light I was guided, and by Your bounty I was enriched, and by Your blessing I entered the morning and the evening. These are my sins before You, I seek Your forgiveness and I repent to You.

*(And from what was reported from some of the Companions and others):*

(129) Have you not considered the assembly of the Children of Israel after Moses when they said to a prophet of theirs, "Send to us a king, and we will fight in the way of God (Allah)." He said, "Would you perhaps refrain from fighting if fighting was prescribed for you?" They said, "And why should we not fight in the cause of God (Allah) when we have been driven out from our homes and our children?" But when fighting was prescribed for them, they turned away, except for a few of them. And God (Allah) is Knowing (Alim) of the wrongdoers. God (Allah) has certainly heard the statement of those who said, "Indeed, God (Allah) is poor, while we are rich." We will record what they said and their killing of the prophets without right, and We will say, "Taste the punishment of the Burning Fire." Have you not seen those to whom it was said, "Withhold your hands and establish prayer and give zakah"? But when fighting was ordained for them, at once a party of them feared men as they fear God (Allah) or with [even] greater fear. They said, "Our Lord (Rabbana), why have You decreed upon us fighting? If only You had postponed [it for] us for a short time." Say, "The enjoyment of this world is little, and the Hereafter is better for he who fears God (Allah). And injustice will not be done to you, [even] as much as a thread [inside a date seed]." And recite to them the story of Adam's two sons, in truth, when they both offered a sacrifice [to God (Allah)], and it was accepted from one of them but was not accepted from the other. Said [the latter], "I will surely kill you." Said [the former], "Indeed, God (Allah) only accepts from the righteous." Say, "Who is Lord (Rabb) of the heavens and earth?" Say, "God (Allah)." Say, "Have you then taken besides Him allies not possessing [even] for themselves any benefit or any harm?" Say, "Is the blind equivalent to the seeing? Or is darkness equivalent to light? Or have they attributed to God (Allah) partners who created like His creation so that the creation [of each] seemed similar to them?" Say, "God (Allah) is the Creator (Khaliq) of all things, and He is the One (Al-Wahid), the Subduer (Al-Qahhar)." O Subduer (Ya Qahir), O Capable (Ya Qadir), O Strong (Ya Qawi), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum), O Withholder (Ya Qabid), O Most Holy (Ya Quddus), O Standing (Ya Qa'im), O Near (Ya Qarib), O Acceptor of Repentance (Ya Qabil Al-Tawb), O Omnipotent (Ya Muqtadir).

(130) O my Savior at my cry for help, O my preparation in my calamity, O my hope in my distress, and O my Companion in my hardship, and O Granter of my blessing, and O God (Ilah) and God (Ilah) of Abraham, Ishmael, Isaac, Jacob, the Tribes, Moses, Jesus, and Muhammad, the Lord (Rabb) of all the prophets. And O Lord (Rabb) of Kaf-Ha-Ya-Ayn-Sad, Ta-Ha, Ta-Sin, and Ya-Sin, and O Revealer of the Torah, the Gospel, the Psalms, and the light-giving Quran (Furqan). Send blessings upon Muhammad and his pure, good family, and grant me the good of Your servant (so-and-so), his goodness, and his favor, and turn away from me his harm, his evil, his repulsiveness, and his sin, by Your mercy O Most Merciful of the merciful (Ya Arham Al-Rahimin).

(131) O Restrainer of the hand of Abraham from slaughtering his son, and O Raiser of the status of Joseph in the desolate land and the unseen depths of the well, and his Maker as a king after slavery. O He who responded to Jonah in the belly of the whale, O Returner of Joseph to Jacob, O Remover of the harm of Job, O Responder to the supplication of the desperate, O Remover of the anxiety of the distressed and anxious. Send blessings upon Muhammad and the family of Muhammad, and I ask You to do with me such-and-such.

(132) O God (Allah), You are the Encompasser (Al-Muhit) of everyone, and the Master over every manifest and hidden thing. I ask You by Your Great, Greatest Name whose description no one can encompass, and which visions cannot perceive. O Absolute (Ya Samad), O He who subdues the enemies and suppresses the tyrants. I ask You to send blessings upon Muhammad and the family of Muhammad, and to restrain the hands of the enemies, and to cut off the root of the wrongdoers, and to place in my heart a king that forbids me from everything You dislike, and supply me by You O Guide (Ya Hadi). O He who has mercy on everything and You are encompassing everything, and praise be to God (Allah), and glory be to God (Allah) for what He gave and sufficed, and peace.

(133) O God (Allah), O Possessor of favor and authority, O Possessor of power and proof, O He whom no place can encompass. O God (Allah), lift the affliction from me, and do with me such-and-such.

(134) In the name of God (Allah), Possessor of status, Great in proof, Severe in authority, every day He is in [a state of] action. There is no power nor strength except by God (Allah), The Most High (Al-Ali), The Great (Al-Azim).

(135) There is no deity but God (Allah), The Most High (Al-Ali), The Great (Al-Azim). Glory be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the Noble Throne. Praise be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the worlds. O God (Allah), forgive me, have mercy on me, grant me well-being, and pardon me, indeed You are Forgiving (Ghafur), Merciful (Rahim).

(136) O God (Allah), I ask You by Your Pure, Good, Blessed Name that is most beloved to You; which if You are called upon by it, You answer, and if You are asked by it, You give, and if You are asked for mercy by it, You show mercy, and if You are asked for relief by it, You grant relief.

(137) God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar), God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar) than all His creation. God (Allah) is the Greatest (Akbar) than what I fear and dread. I seek refuge in God (Allah), whom there is no deity but Him, the Holder of the seven heavens from falling on the earth except by His permission, from the evil of Your servant so-and-so, his armies, his followers, and his partisans from among the jinn and mankind. O God (Allah), be a protector for me from their evil. Glorious is Your praise, mighty is Your protection, blessed is Your Name, and there is no deity other than You (Three times).

(138) O Gentle (Ya Latifan) with His creation, O Knowing (Ya Aliman) of His creation, O Aware (Ya Khabiran) of His creation, be gentle with me O Gentle (Ya Latif), O Knowing (Ya Alim), O Aware (Ya Khabir).

(139) O God (Allah), O Gentle (Ya Latif), the universes have wrapped themselves in the holiness of Your majesty. So I ask You to manifest to me Your hidden secret from the hiddenness of Your hidden gentleness, indeed You said, and Your saying is the truth: (God (Allah) is Gentle (Latif) with His servants; He provides for whom He wills, and He is the Strong (Al-Qawi), the Mighty (Al-Aziz)). Indeed You are Gentle (Latif), Gentle (Latif) (Repeats the name Gentle (Latif) twenty times).

(140) Sufficient for me is God (Allah) for my religion, sufficient for me is God (Allah) for my world, sufficient for me is God (Allah), The Generous (Al-Karim), for what concerns me. Sufficient for me is God (Allah), The Wise (Al-Hakim), against whoever oppresses me. Sufficient for me is God (Allah), The Severe (Al-Shadid), against whoever plots evil against me. Sufficient for me is God (Allah), The Merciful (Al-Rahim), at death. Sufficient for me is God (Allah), The Clement (Al-Ra'uf), at the questioning in the grave. Sufficient for me is God (Allah), The Generous (Al-Karim), at the reckoning. Sufficient for me is God (Allah), The Gentle (Al-Latif), at the scales. Sufficient for me is God (Allah), The Capable (Al-Qadir), at the path (Sirat). Sufficient for me is God (Allah), there is no deity but Him, upon Him I have relied, and He is the Lord (Rabb) of the Great Throne.

(141) I seek refuge in the Face of God (Allah), The Great (Al-Azim), than which nothing is greater, and in the perfect words of God (Allah) which neither a righteous nor a wicked person can pass beyond, and in the beautiful Names of God (Allah), what I know of them and what I do not know, from the evil of what He created, originated, and made.

(142) O God (Ya Allah), The Most High (Al-Ali), The Supreme (Al-A'la), The Recompenser (Al-Dayyan), who has no child, no parent, and no female companion. I testify that Noah is the Messenger of God (Allah), and that Abraham is the Intimate Friend of God (Allah), and that Moses is the Confidential Confidant of God (Allah), and that David is the Vicegerent of God (Allah), and that Jesus is the Spirit of God (Allah) and His Word which He directed to Mary and a spirit from Him, and that Muhammad, peace and blessings of God be upon him, is the seal of the prophets, there is no prophet after him.

(143) O Lord (Ya Rabb), O Lord (Ya Rabb), O Lord (Ya Rabb). O God (Ya Allah), O God (Ya Allah), O God (Ya Allah). O Compassionate (Ya Rahman), O Merciful (Ya Rahim). O Living (Ya Hayy), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum). O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Ya Dha Al-Jalal wa Al-Ikram). O Most Merciful of the merciful (Ya Arham Al-Rahimin). O God (Allah), send blessings upon Muhammad and the family of Muhammad, and relieve from me what I am in (He says all of this three times).

(144) O God (Allah), O Revealer of great affairs, and O ultimate end of the anxiety of the anxious, and O Reliever of the great distress. O He who, when He intends a thing, He only says to it "Be," and it is. Sins have surrounded me, and You are the stored treasure for them and for every hardship, there is no deity but You.

(145)  O God (Allah), I ask You, O He who possesses the needs of the askers, and knows the inner thoughts of the silent ones, for indeed every request has from You a present hearing and a ready answer, and every silent one has from You an encompassing, inward knowledge. I ask You by Your truthful promises, Your overflowing favors, and Your vast mercy, that You do with me such-and-such.

(146) O God (Allah), send blessings upon our master Muhammad, the opener of what was closed, the seal of what preceded, the helper of the truth by the truth, and the guide to Your straight path, and upon his family according to his rightful measure and his great magnitude.

(147) O God (Allah), send blessings upon our master Muhammad, the unlettered, pure, immaculate Prophet, a blessing by which knots are untied and distresses are unpacked.

(148) O God (Allah), send blessings upon our master Muhammad, a blessing by which You save us from all terrors and calamities, and by which You fulfill for us all needs, and by which You purify us from all evil deeds, and by which You raise us with You to the highest degrees, and by which You make us reach the furthest limits of all goodness in life and after death.

(149) O God (Allah), send a complete blessing and bestow a perfect peace upon our master Muhammad, by whom knots are untied, distresses are relieved, needs are fulfilled, desires and good endings are obtained, and by whose noble face the clouds are asked for rain, and upon his family and companions in every glance and breath, according to the number of everything known to You.

(150) O God (Allah), send blessings and peace upon our master Muhammad, the Remover of grief, the Clearer of anxiety, a blessing by which great distress is uncovered.

(151) O God (Allah), send blessings upon our master Muhammad, the beloved (Al-Habib), the endeared (Al-Mahbub), the healer of ailments and the reliever of distresses.

(152) O God (Allah), send blessings upon our master Muhammad, the prophet of mercy, the good, the pure, the mercy of God (Allah) to the worlds, and upon his good, pure family, and grant them abundant peace.

**(The Litany of Victory / Hizb Al-Nasr by my master Abdul Qadir Al-Jilani, may God be pleased with him)**

(153) In the name of God (Allah), The Compassionate (Al-Rahman), The Merciful (Al-Rahim). My God (Ilahi), I ask You for a greatness in the sea of the light of Your overpowering, dazzling, manifest, hidden, capable, omnipotent awe, until my face gleams with the rays from the light of Your awe to which the eyes of the envious submit and the devils of mankind and jinn tremble from. So they do not look at me shooting the arrows of their envy and their hidden plots except that their sights become humbled at seeing me, and their necks become submissive to my assault. And veil me O God (Allah) with the veil whose inside is light and mercy for my states, my words, and my actions by His sensing, and whose outside is the burning fire to my enemy, cutting the root of whoever intends me [harm], until they return from their watering places disappointed, lost, treacherous, humbled, submissive, and disgraced, turning their backs, ruining their homes with their own hands and the hands of the believers. And I ask You, O God (Allah), by Your Name, the Light (Al-Nur), with which You veiled Yourself and established the law of the universes, and Your Face, the Light (Al-Nur), by which You concealed Yourself from the perception of sights, that You veil me with the light of Your Names within the lights of Your secrets, a veil that withholds from me every deficiency that mixes with my core or my incidental attributes, and stands between me and whoever intends me with evil or intends [harm to] what You have given me life by from Your favors which You granted me, and Your pleasure in which He sees my origination, my existence, my essence, and my art. Indeed You are the Defender of every evil and disliked thing, and You are Capable (Qadir) over all things. O Illuminator of every light, clothe me from Your light a garment that explains to me what has confused me from my inner and outer states, and obliterate with Your light the eyes of my enemies and those who envy me so they do not find guidance to me except with humility, submission, love, and exhaustion. And seize, O God (Allah), their hearts with terror and their minds with bewilderment from before me, and every transgressing, tyrannical, insolent one, repel them from me with the Lordly (Rabbaniyyah) [power], and seize their hearts with the angelic (Mala'ikiyyah) [presence] that descends from every direction, by the right of every name that is Yours, by which You named Yourself, or revealed in Your book, or taught to anyone from Your creation, or kept exclusively in the knowledge of the unseen with You. By what is Yours upon You, and by Your right upon everyone possessing a right to You. O Living (Ya Hayy), O Evident (Ya Mubin), O Living (Ya Hayy), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum), O God (Ya Allah), O our Lord (Ya Rabbana), O Bestower (Ya Mannan). I ask You by Your Beautiful Names, and by Your Perfect, Elevated Attributes, and by Your Supreme Majesty, and by Your Throne and what it contains, and by Him who established Himself upon the Throne and contained the dominion, and by Him who approached and came down, and was at a distance of two bow lengths or nearer, that You cause the sun of Your overpowering, dazzling, great, capable, omnipotent awe to rise upon my face until it blinds every gazer at me with an eye that does not fulfill love, or with contempt and mockery, so they turn back when looking at me scattered by destructive terrors, leaving among them neither a blower of fire nor a raiser of a lighthouse, cutting their root and erasing their trace. And the root of the people who wronged was cut off, and praise be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the worlds. And God (Allah), from behind them, is Encompassing. Rather, it is a glorious Quran. In a preserved slate. If We will, We can send down to them from the sky a sign, so their necks would remain humbled to it. And praise be to God (Allah), Lord (Rabb) of the worlds. In the name of God (Allah), The Compassionate (Al-Rahman), The Merciful (Al-Rahim). O Compassionate (Ya Rahman), O Merciful (Ya Rahim), O Living (Ya Hayy), O Sustainer (Ya Qayyum). Kaf-Ha-Ya-Ayn-Sad. O Loving (Ya Wadud), O He whose help is sought (Ya Musta'an). Ha-Mim Ayn-Sin-Qaf. And may God (Allah) send blessings upon our master Muhammad and upon his family and companions and grant them peace.
